:warning: _This file was converted from the EDGELIB 4.02 documentation from 2012 and is included for historic purposes. The documentation is not maintained anymore: information is outdated and external links might be broken._

# Getting started with Symbian

This tutorial will get you started with Symbian development. It contains the following chapters:

* [Installation](getting_started_symbian_installation.md)
* [Commandline project](getting_started_symbian_cmdproject.md)
* [The C++ source file](getting_started_symbian_sourcefile.md)
* [Symbian installations](getting_started_symbian_sisfiles.md)
* [Symbian security](getting_started_symbian_security.md)
* [Application UID](getting_started_symbian_appuid.md)

## Important
Self-signed certificates for Symbian 9 applications generated by Carbide and the makekeys utility are only valid for one year. To generate a self-signed certificate you need OpenSSL. Here is an example to create a long-lasting (20 years) self-signed certificate using OpenSSL:

```c++
openssl genrsa 1024 > sign.key 
openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -sha1 -days 7300 -key sign.key > sign.cert
```

The EDGELIB Buillder tool (previously called Edge IDE) contains examples of 20-year certificate files.

## Notes
Before Symbian version 9 a typical Symbian application could not use global variables. Also, Symbian installation files should be created as small as possible, as most older Symbian phones have a small amount of memory. Try to keep the installation file intended for older Symbian phones smaller than about 1MB. These are the limits to keep in mind when developing applications for Symbian.

## Download tutorial project
Here is a [sample that can be downloaded](files/helloworld_symbian.zip) which contains the result of this tutorial.

## Getting started tutorials
* [EDGELIB installation](tutorials_getting_started_edgeinstallation.md)
* [Getting started with Apple iOS](getting_started_iphone.md)
* [Getting started with Google Android](getting_started_android.md)
* **Getting started with Symbian**
* [Getting started with Windows Mobile](getting_started_windowsmobile.md)
* [Getting started with Maemo 5](getting_started_maemo5.md)
* [Getting started with Antix Game Player](getting_started_antix.md)
* [Getting started with Windows desktop](getting_started_desktop.md)
* [Getting started with Linux desktop](getting_started_linux.md)
* [Getting started with Mac OS X](getting_started_macosx.md)
* [Getting started with GP2X](getting_started_gp2x.md)
* [Getting started with Gizmondo](getting_started_gizmondo.md)
* [Multi-platform considerations](getting_started_multiplatform.md)

